# UNTITLEDDICEGAME
Brainstorming and initial coding for Untitled Dice Game
Thie is a companion app / guide for collaborative TTRPG action. By default, the game is designed for 3 players.
Each player has their own set of 3 d20 dice chosen from a pool of about 10. These dice represent talents or gambits that might be attempted in the game. Each of these dice can fall into one of 3 categories: Physical, Verbal, and Preventative. A player will have one from each set. (Physical - Slash, Stap, Bonk. Verbal - Threaten, Deceive, Persuade. Preventative - Bribe, Hide, Grapple)
For example, a player might have Persuade, Bonk, and Hide as their three options. Another player might have Threaten, Bribe, and Stab. Another player might have Slash, Deceive, and Grapple. Players will encounter various obstacles or combats that they must proceed through. They will do so by taking turns choosing dice and rolling to see if they are successful.
Rewards, goals, and gameplay will be oriented around improving these dice. For example there might be an option to replace the 2 with 1, but replace the 3 with a 20. Or there might be an option to add 5 to a number of your choosing. Players will permanently improve their dice, allowing them to progressively clear more difficult challenges.
The true unique and awesome flavor of this game comes about from substituting segments of your own dice with rolls or segments on another player's dice.
Easy example: I replace a 2 on my Punch die with a roll on my teammate's Stab die. So if I try to punch and Would have rolled a 2, I instead get the result of my teammate immediately rolling their own Stab die. (Narratively, rather than letting you fail, they step in to help)
Medium example: You swap segments 2, 3, 4, and 5 on your die with segments 12, 13, 14, and 15 on your ally's die; they do the same. So instead of getting a terrible roll on your own die, you instead get a middling roll on a teammate's - but at the risk of, say, stabbing someone you were hoping to punch, or knocking out someone you were hoping to persuade.
Hard Example: I swap out any fail (1-9) on my die with the WORSE of my teammate's rolls on their own dice. So I try to stab but miss, and trying to save me, my friends both stumble in front and one kinda poorly lies to the enemy and the other grapples them even worse so THAT is the thing that actually happens.
Other examples: I replace a 19 on my die with a 20 on my teammate's die. I scratch out a number on my die, and when it's rolled, I get to pick any other die to be rolled instead.  Other example: Maybe I accept getting 2 more Nat 1s added to my die, in exchange for getting 3 more Nat 20s added (replacing other numbers). 
Teammates could strategize well around one or a few options - "let's do everything we can to soup up the Paladin's persuade ability, and then we'll try to replace as many segments on our dice with that one supercharged Persuade die!" or "let's stack all of our shitty numbers onto Stab, we are trying to play pacifist".
This will not be a true roguelike but will have some roguelite elements. Generally this is a progressive campaign; once heroes clear Stage 1, they will play Stage 2 until they beat it, then move on to Stage 3. They don't need to return to Stage 1 each time. Rather, various upgrades are unlocked based on how they cleared the earlier stages, as well as base bonuses for starting higher-level stages. Between permanent hero upgrades, base up-floor upgrades, varying up-floor upgrades, and per-run temporary bumps, these upgrades can come in a variety of ways, with a variety of permanence. This may be the most complicated part of the game.
Easy/cheap upgrade: Just directly adding to the number on a die (from 2 to 3 costs 1 G, from 3 to 4 costs 2 G, for example).
Medium upgrade: Replace a segment with a fresh roll on a teammate's die. Or, replace a segment with a "Chaos" segment, where you choose a player to roll all 3 of their dice, the middle number is what happens.
Hard/expensive upgrade: Choose 5 numbers to become nat 1s and 5 numbers to become Nat 20s
Encouunters/levels will be set up similar to Slay the Spire or Inscryption where the players advance through a basic overworld, following a generally linear path but making a few choices at forks to choose their route. Simple and recognizable icons will indicate the various types of encounters. These will be a mix of Good Encounters, ones where there is little to no risk (shopkeep, upgrading, etc), ; Bad Encounters, where the player has to fight an enemy or overcome an obstacle to try to earn Gold; Neutral Encounters, obstacles/opportunities that can be approached in a number of different ways; and Boss Encounters, the final stage to be cleared before advancing to the next level.
Example Good Encounters - the Mathemetician - he does adds, subtracts, etc. to dice. The Alchemist does weird stuff to dice, replacing your segments with your friends' dice, etc. The Gambler lets you, well, gamble, and has luck-based structure as well as offering luck-based segment changes. 
Example Bad Encounters - Combat with bandits (can be killed or mugged or persuaded, etc) evil people (best prizes rewards for killing them) Combat with city guards (best prizes for winning/escaping but NOT killing them).
Example Neutral Encounters: The Ferryman (offers to take them across the boat but they have to roll a gambit of their choice and whichever dice they roll happens to the guy), The Trapper (has mismatched hodgepodge dice they can trade for), The Shopkeep (buy the effect of a Good Encounter).
Boss encounters will shape the narrative of the game. For now, we can think of this as a 5-stage campaign with each stage having its own narrative and boss. These would change minimally over each playthrough, while the other encounters would be different each attempt (randomly generated with some caveats for balance). For the sake of ease, lets think of these now as 1 Dirty Innkeeper, 2 Corrupt Guard, 3 Subhuman General, 4 Chthonic King, 5 Destroyer of Worlds. Together these will weave the narrative of our players growing and improving as they navigate the world, from their simple innkeeper being a rat, all the way to saving the world from its destruction. Each of the 5 Levels in the campaign will feature a "miniboss" of sorts where the player can try to set themselves up for an easier final boss (assuming the team makes it there).
Visually I am picturing a vertical exploration map that takes up the whole screen as the overworld. When the players move into an encounter that map rolls up and there is a 3D dice-roller-catcher on the bottom and then the text/art explaining the encounter on the top. 
This is not 100% decided but, ideally, Players interface with the game on their own devices ala Jackbox or Sunderfolk. This allows them to make the fine-tuned decisions for each die without slowing down the game. In most situations where an upgrade is granted, all heroes will receive it. In some situations, the group will have to determine who should get the upgrade. Regardless, only one player would need to purchase the game and then stream it (or play couch co-op). The general interface for each player is their three dice in 3 dimensions that you can rotate and zoom in on. clicking one zooms in on it and brings up the "confirm" option to actually roll in the dice tray on the big screen.
